ow

me ¢ \

Per guidance from the Chief/DRRB CIA Declassification Center,
you may consider the document declassified... If you use an
exact copy of the document in your presentations, please draw
a line through the classification markings to prevent confusion.
Use the information as you see fit.

4/2/2008

UNCLASSIFIED

SIMPLE SABOTAGE
SPITLD MANUAL

Strategic Services

(Provisional)

STRATEGIC SERVICES FIELD MANUAL No. 3

UNCLASSIFIED

A

“4

Office of Strategic Services

Washington, D.C.

17 January 1944

This Simple Sabolage Field Manual — Strategic Ser-
vices (Provisional) —is published for the information and
guidance of all concerned and will be used as the basic doc-
trine for Strategic Services training for this subject.

The contents of this Manual should be carefully con-
trolled and should not be allowed to come inlo unauthorized
hands.

The instructions may be placed in separate pamphiets
ov leaficts according to categories of operations but should be
distributed with care and not broadly. They should be used
as a basis of radio broadcasts only for local and special cases
and as directed by the theater commander.

_ AR 380-5, pertaining to handling of secret documents,
will be complied with in the handling of this Manual.

WG be. qj an

William J. Donovan

Director
CONTENTS

. INTRODUCTION

{$e

2, POSSIBLE EFFECTS .
3. MOTIVATING THE SABOTEUR .
4, TOOLS, TARGETS, AND TIMING

~ §. SPECIFIC SUGGESTIONS FOR
SIMPLE SABOTAGE

Page
SIMPLE SABOTAGE

1, INTRODUCTION ©

a. The purpose of this paper is to characterlze simple
sabotage, to outline its possible effects, and to present
suggestions for Inciting and executing it.

“b, Sabotage varies from highly technical coup de main
~ots that require detalled planning and the use of specially
trained operatives, to innumerable simple acts whlch the

‘ordinary Individual citizen-saboteur can perform. This

“paper is primarily concerned with the latter type. Simple

(

- ment; it is executed by an ordinary citizen who may or

“sabotage does not require specially prepared tools ar equip-

‘may not act individually and without the necessily for

(active connection with an organized group; and it is car-
ried out in such a way as lo involve a minimum danger of
injury, detection, and reprisal, -

C. Where destruction is involved, the weapons of the:
cltizen- Saboteur are salt, nails, candies, pebbles, thread, or
jany other materials he might normally be expected to
[posses as a householder or as a worker in his particular
occupation. His arsenal is tne kitchen shelf, the trash pile,
his own usual kit of tools and supplies. The targets of his
jsabotage are usually objects to which he has normai and
Unconspicuous access in everyday life.

d. A sccond type of simple sabotage requires vo destruc-
tive tools whatsoever and produces physical damage, if
“any, by highly indirect means. It is based on universal
opportunities to make faulty decisions, to adopt a_mon-
cooperative attitude, and to induce others to follow suit.
Making a faulty decision may be simply a matter of
placing t tools in one spot Instead of another. A non-cooper-
ative attitude may involve nothing more than creating an
unpleasant situation among one's fellow workers, engag-
ing in bickerings, or displaying surliness and stupidity.

¢. This type of activity, sometimes referred to as the
“human clement," Is frequently responsible for accidents,
delays, and gencral obstruction even under normal condl-
tions. The potential saboteur should discover what types

i
of {nutty decisions and non-cooperation are normally
found in his kind of work and should then devise his
Sabotage so as to enlarge that “margin for error.”

2, POSSIBLE EFFECTS

a. Acts of simple sabotage are occurring throughout
Europe, An effort should be made to add to thelr eMeciency,
lessen tyeir detectability, and increase their number. Acts
Of shiple sabotage, multiplied by thousands of citizen-
saboleurs, can be an effective weapon against the enemy.
Stnshing Ures, draining fuel tanks, starting Ares, starting
Arguments, acting stupidly, short-circuiting electric sys-
tems, avrading machine parts will waste materials, man-
power, ang time.Occurring on a wide scale, simple sabotage
will be © constant and tangible drag on the war effort of
lhe enemy. ,

b. Simple sabotage may also have secondary results of
More ot less value. Widespread practice of simple sabotage
will harass and demoralize enemy administrators and
pollee. Further, success may embolden the cilizen-sabo-
teur eventually to Mind colleagues who can assist him in
sabotage of greater dimensions, Finally, the very practice
of simple sabotage by natives in enemy or occupied terr!-
lory may make these individuals identify themselves
actively with the United Nations war effort, and encourage
‘them to assist openly in periods of Aliicd invasion and
occupation.

3. MOTIVATING THE SABOTEUR

a. To incite the citizen to the active practice of simple
. sabotage and to keep him practicing that sabotage over
sustained periods is a specia! problem.

b. Simple sabotage is often an act which the cltizen
performs according to hls own Initlative and Inclination.
Acts of destruction do not bring him any personal gain
and may be completely foreign to his habitually conserva-
Hionist attitude toward materials and tools. Purposeful
stupidity is contrary to human nature. He frequently
needs pressure, stimulation cr assurance, and information
and suggestions regarding feasible methods of simple
sabotage. .

+.

~s
AL

|

(1) Personal Motives

(a) The ordinary clt{zen very probably has no
Immediate personal motlve for committing simple
sabotage. Instead, he must be made to: anticipate
inelrect personal gain, such as might come wilh
enemy evacuation or destruction of the ruling gov-
ernment group. Gains should be stated as specifically
as possible for the area addressed: simple sabotage
will hasten the day when Commissioner X and his
deputles Y and Z will be thrown out, when particu-
larly obnoxious decrees and restrictions will be
abollshed, when food will arrive, and so on. Abstract
verbalizations about personal \iberty, freedom of the
press, and so on, will not be convincing in most parts
of the world. In many areas they will not even be
comprehensible.

(b) Since the effect of his own acts is limited,
the saboteur may become discouraged unless he fecls
that he is a member of a large, though unseen, group
of saboteurs operating against the enemy or the
government of his owm country and elsewhere, This
can be conveyed jndirectly: suggestions which he
reads and hears can include observations that a
particular technique has been successful in this or
that district. Even if the technique is not applicable
to his surroundings, another's success will encourage
him to attempt similar acts. It also can be conveyed
directly: statements praising the effectiveriess of
simple sabotage can be contrived which will be pub
lished by_white radio, freedom stations, and the sub-
verslve press. Estimates of the proportion of the
population engaged in sabotage can be disseminated.
Instances of successful sabotage already are being
broadcast by white rads/o and freedom stations, and
this Should be continued and expanded where com-
patible with security. ;

(c) More important than (a) or (b) would be
to create o situation jn which the citizen-saboleur
acquires a sense of responsibility and begins to

educate others {mn simple sabotage.

3
(2) Encouraging Destructiveness
It should be pointed out to the saboteur where
the clrcumstances are suitable, that he is acting In self-
defense against the enemy, or retaliating against the

_ enemy for other acts of destruction. A reasonable

amount of humor in the presentation of suggestions for
Simple sabotage will relax tensions of fear.

(a) The saboteur may have to reverse his think- -

‘ng, and he should be told this in so many words.
Where he formerly thought of keeping his tools
sharp, he should now let them grow dull; surfaces
hat formerly were lubricated now should be sanded;
Normally diligent, he should now be lazy ond care-
less; and so on. Once he js encouraged to think back-
wards about himself and the objects of his everyday
life, Lhe saboteur will see many opportunities in his
{immediate environment which cannot possibly be
seen from 8 distance. A state of mind should be
encouraged that anything can be sabotaged.

(o) Among the potential citizen-saboteurs who
are to engage in physical destruction, two extreme
lypes may be distinguished. On the one hand, there
ss the man who Is not technically trained and em-
ployed, This man needs Specific suggestions as to
whnl he can and should destroy as well as detalls
regarding the tools by means of which destruction is
accomplished,

(c) At Une other extreme is the man who Is a
lechnician, such as a lathe operator or ah automobile
mechanic, Presumably this man would be able to
devise methods of simple sabotage which would be
uppropriale lo his own facilities. However, this man
needs to be stimulated to re-orient his thinking in
the direction of destruction, Specific examples, which

need not be from his own fleld, should accomplish
this.

(d)* Various media may be used to disseminate
stingestions and Information regarding simple sabo-
tune, Among the media which may be used, as the
Imniediale situation dictates, are: freedom stations

4

ws

ay

or radio, false or official leaflets. Broadcasts or leal-
lets may be directed toward specific geographic or
occupational areas, or they may be general jn scope.
Finally, agents may be traincd in the art of simple
sabotage, In anticipation of a time when they may
be able to communicate this information directly,

(3) Safety Measures

“(a) The amount of activity carried on by the
saboteur wil! be governed not only by the number of
opportunitics he sees, but also by the amount of
danger he feels. Bad news travels fast, and simple
sabotage wilt be discouraged if too many simple
Saboteurs ate arrested.

(b) It should not be diMcult to prepare Jeaflets
and other media for the sabotcur about the choice
of weapons, time, and targets which will insure the
saboteur against detection and retaliation. Among
such suggestions might be the following:

{1} Use materials which appear to be inno-
cent. A knife or a nail file can be carried nor
mally on your person; either is a multi-purpose
Instrument for crcating damage. Matches, peb-
bles, halr, salt,nails, and dozens of other destruc-
tive agents can be carried or kept in your living
quarters without exciting any suspicion what-
ever. If you are a worker in a particular trade
or industry you can easily carry and kecp such
things as wrenches, hammers, emery paper, and
the like.

(2) Try to commlt acts for which large
‘numbers of people could be responsible. For
instance, if you blow out the wiring in a‘ factory
at a central fire box, almost anyone could have
done it. On-the-strect sabotage after dark, such
as you might be able to carry out against a mili-
tary car or truck, is another example of an act
for which it would be impossible to blame you.

(3) Do not be afraid to commit acts for
which you might be blamed directly, so Jong as
you do so rarely, and as long as you have a

5
plausible excuse: you dropped your wrench
across an electric circult because an alr raid
had kept you up the night before and you were
half-dozing at work. Always be profuse in your
apologies. Frequently you can "get away” with
such acts under the cover of pretending stupid-
ity, lgnorance, over-caution, fear of belng sus-
pected of sabotage, or weakness and dullness
due to undernourishment.

(4) After you have committed an act of
casy sabotage, resist any temptation to walt
around and see what happens. Lolterers arouse
auspicion, Of course, there are circumstances
when St would be susplelous for you to leave. If
you commlt sabotage on your job, you should
naturally stay at your work,

4. TOOLS, TARGETS, AND TIMING ‘

A. The citlzen-saboteur cannot be closely controlled.
Nor is Il reasonable to expect that simple sabotage can be
precisely concentrated on specific types of target according
to the requirements of a concrete military situation. At-
tempts lo control simple sabotage according to developing
milllary factors, moreover, might provide the enemy with
Intelllgenee of more or Jess value in anticipating the date
nnd arco of notably intensified or notably slackened mill-
tary activity.

b. Sabotage suggestions, of course, should be adapted
lo fit the area where they are to be practiced. Target priori-
Lles for gencral types of situations likewise can be specified,
for emphasis at the proper time by the underground press,
{reedom stallons, and cooperating propaganda.

(1) Under General Conditions

{a) Simple sabotage js more than malicious
mischief, and it should always consist of acts whose
results will be detrimental to the materials and man-
power of the enemy.

(b) The saboteur should be Ingenious in using
hls every-day equipment. All sorts of weapons will
present themselves if he looks at his surroundings In
n different light. For example, emery dust—a

6

powerful weapon — may at first seem unobtainable,
but if the saboteur were to pulverize an emery knife
sharpener or emery wheel with.a hammer, he would
find himself with a plentiful supply.

(c) The saboteur should never altack targets
beyond his capacity or the capacity of his instru-
ments. An Inexperlenced person should not, for ex-.
ample, attempt to use explosives, but should confine
himself to the use of matches or other famillar
weapons. “5 . :

(d) The saboteur should try to damage only
objects and materials known to be in’ use by the
enemy or to be degtined for early use by the enemy. ©
It will be gafe for, hind to assiine that altHost any
product of heavy {du is de@ined for eriemy use,
and that the.most efficient fuelé and lubricants also
are destined for enemy use. Without special know-
ledge, however, it would be undesirable for him to
attempt destruction of food crops or food products.

(e) Although the citizen-saboteur may rarely
have access to military objects, he should give these
preference above all others.

(2) Prior to a Military Offensive
During periods which are quiescent in a military
sense, such emphasis as can be given to simple sabotage
might well center on. industrial production, to lessen
the flow of materials and equipment to the enemy.
Slashing a rubber tire on an Army truck may be an act
of value; spoiling a batch of rubber in the production

plant fs an act of still more value. :

. (3) During a Military Offensive

(a) Most significant sabotage for an area which
{s, or is soon destined to be, & theater of combat
operations is that whose effects will be direct and im-
mediate. Even if the effects are relatively minor and
localized, this type of sabotage is to be preferred to
activities whose effects, while widespread, are in-
direct and delayed.

(1) The saboteur should be encouraged to
attack transportation , facilitles of all kinds.

7
Among such facilities are roads, rallroads; auto-
mobiles, trucks, motor-cycles, bicycles, trains,
ond trams, ‘ :

{2) Any communications facillties which
can be used by the authorities to transmit Jn-
_Structions or morale material should be the
objects of simple sabotage. These include tele-
phone, telegraph and power systems, radio,
newspapers, placards, and public notices.

(3) Critical materials, valuable in them-
Selves or necessary to the eMclent functioning
of transportation and communication, also
should become targets for the citizen-savoteur.

These may include oil, gasoline, tires, food, and
water, ,

5. SPECIFIC SUGGESTIONS FOR SIMPLE SABOTAGE

4. IL wilt not be possible to evaluate the desirabllity of
simple snbotage in an area without having in mind rather
specifically what individual acts and results are embraced
by Ue definition of simple sabotage.

bv. A Msting of specific acts follows, classified according
to (ypes of Larget. This Ilst is presented as a growing rather
{inn a complete outline of the methods of simple sabotage.
As uew techniques are developed, or new flelds explored
It will be claborated and expanded.

(t) Bulldings

Warchouses, barracks, oMces, hotels, and factory
buildings are outstanding targets for simple sabotage.
They are extremely susceptible to damage, especially
by Are; they offer opportunities to such untrained
people ns janitors, charwomen, and casual visitors; and,
when damnged, they present a relatively Jarge handicap
to Lhe enemy.

(0) Fires can be started wherever there is an
Accumulation of inflammable material, Warehouses
ore obviously the most promising targets but incen-
dinry sabotage need not be confined to them alone.

(1) Whenever possible, arrange to have the

fire stort ofter you have gone away. Use a

}

candle and paper combination, setting it as
close as possible to the inflammable materia)
you want to burn: From a sheet of paper, tear
a strip three or four centimeters wide and wrap
jt around the base of the candle two or three
times. Twist more sheets of paper into loose
ropes and place them around the base of the
candle. When the candle flame reaches the en-
circling strip, it will be ignited and in tum will
ignite the surrounding paper. The sizé, heat, and
duration of the resulting flame will depend on
how much paper you use and how much of St
you can cramp in a small space.

(2) With a flame of this kind, do not at-
tempt to ignite any but rather inflammable
materials, such as cotton sacking. To Ight
more resistant materials, use a candle plus
tightly rolled or twisted paper which has been
soaked in gasoline. To create a briefer but even
hotter flame, put celluloid such as you might
find in an old comb, into a nest of plain or
saturated paper which is to be fired by a candle.

(3) To make another type of simple fuse,
soak one end of a plece of string In grease. Rub
a generous pinch of gunpowder over the inch of
string where greasy string meets clean string.
Then ignite the clean end of the string. It will
burn slowly without a fame (in much the same
way that a cigarette burns) untl) it reaches the
grease and gunpowder; it will then flare up
suddenly. The grease-treated string will then .
burn with a flame. The same effect may be
achieved by using matches Instead of the grease
and gunpowder. Run the string over the match

_ heads, taking care that the string is not pressed

or knotted. They too will produce a sudden flame.
The advantage of this type of fuse Js that string
burns at a set speed. You can time your fire by
the length and thickness of the string you
chose. ,
(4) Use a fuse such as the ones suggested
Above to start a fire In an office after hours. The
destructlon of records and other types of docu-
ments would be a serious handicap toa the enemy.

(5) In basements where waste is kept, jani-
lors should accumulate oily and greasy waste.
Such waste sometimes ignites spontaneously,
but it can easily be lit with a cigarette or match.
If you ore a janitor on night duty, you can be
the first to report the fire, but don’t report it
too soon,

(6) A clean factory is not susceptible to
fire, but a dirty one is. Workers should be care-
less with refuse and janitors should be ineffictent
in cleaning. If enough dirt and trash can be
accumulated an otherwise fireproof building will
become inflammable.

(7) Where ituminating gas is used in a
room which is vacant at night, shut the windows
tightly, turn on the gas, and leave a candle
burming in the room, closing the door tightly
vehind. you. After a time, the gas will explode,
and a fire may or may not follow.

(b) Water and miscellaneous

(1) Ruin warehouse stock by setting the
automatic sprinkler system to work. You can

do this by tapping the sprinkler heads sharply °

with o hammer or by holding a match under
them,

(2) Forget to provide paper in toilets; put
Ughtiy rolled paper, hair, and other obstructions

in'the W. C. Saturate a sponge with a thick:

starch or sugar solution. Squeeze it tightly into
a ball, wrap it with string, and dry. Remove the
string when fully dried. The sponge will be in
the form of a tight hard bali, Flush down a
W. C. or otherwise introduce into a sewer line.
The sponge will gradually expand to its normal
size and plug the sewage system.

(3) Put a coln beneath a build in a public

a

(2)

buliding during the daytime, so that fuses will
blow, out when lights are turned on at night.
The fuses themselves may be rendered ineffective
by putting a coin behind them or loading therm
with heavy wire. Then a short-circuit may elther
start a fire, damage transformers, or blow oul
a central fuse which will interrupt distribution
of electricity to a large area.

(4) Jam paper, bits of wood, hairpins, and
anything else that will At, into the locks’of all
unguarded entrances to public buildings.
Industrial Production: Manufacturing
(a) Tools

(1) Let cutting tools grow dull. They will
be inefficient, will slow down production, and
may damage the materials and’ parts you use
them on.

(2) Leave saws slightly twisted when you
are not using them. After a while, they wil
break when used. ;

(3) Using a very rapid stroke will wear out
a file before its time. So will dragging a file in
slow strokes under heavy pressure. Exert pres-
sure on the backward stroke as well as the for-
ward stroke,

(4) Clean files by knocking them agalnst
the vise or the workpiece; they are easily broken
this way.

(5) Bits and drills will snap under heavy
pressure. 7

(8) You can put a press punch out of order
by putting in it more materia! than It is ad-
justed for — two blanks Instead of one, for ex-
ample.
(1) Power-driven tools like pneumatic drills,
riveters, and so on, are never efficient when
dirty. Lubrication points and electric contacts
can easily be fouled by normal accumwations
of dirt or the insertion of foreign matter.

iM
(b) ofl and lubrication systems are not only
vulnerable to easy sabotage, but arg critical in every
machine with moving parts. Sabotage of ofl and
lubrication will slow production or stop work en-
Urely at strategic points in industrial processes.

(1) Put meta) dust or fillngs, fine sand,
ground glass, emery dust (get it by pounding up
mn emery knife sharpener) and similar hard,
gritty substances directly into lubrication sys-
tems. They will scour smooth surfaces, ruining
pistons, cylinder walls, shafts, and bearings.
They will overheat and stop motors which will
need overhauling, new parts, and extensive re-
pairs. Such materials, if they are used, should
be introduced into lubrication systems past any
filters which otherwise would strain them out.

(2) You can cause wear on any machine by
uncovering a filter system, poking a pencil or
any other sharp object through the filter mesh,
then covering it up again, Or, if you can dispose
of it quickly, simply remove the filter.

(3) If you cannot get at the lubrication
system or filter directly, you may be able to lessen
the effectiveness of of] by diluting it in storage.
In this case, almost any liquid will do which
will thin the oil. A small amount of sulphuric
acid, varnish, water-glass, or linseed oil will be
especially effective.

(4) Using a thin oit where a heavy oil is
prescribed will break down a machine or heat
up a moving shaft so that it will ‘freeze’ and
stop. ,

{5) Put any clogging substance into lub-
rication systems or, if it will float, into stores
oll, Twisted combings of human hair, pieces of

string, dead insects, and many other common.

objects will be effective in stopping or hindering
the flow of oil through feed lines and filters.

(6) Under some circumstances, you may be
able to destroy oil outright rather than interfere

12

a

with its effectiveness, by removing stop-~; = 3
from lubricating systems or by puncturing the
drums and cans in which it is stored.

(c) Cooling Systems ‘

(1) A water coollng system can be put out
of commission In a {nlrly short time, with oon-
siderable damage to an engine or motor, if you
put into it several plnches of hard grain, such
as rice or wheat. They will swell up and choke
the circulation of water, and the cooling system
will have to be torn down to remove the obstruc-
tion. Sawdust or hair may also be used to clog
a water cooling system. ,

(2) If very cold water is quickly introduced
into the cooling system of an overheated motor,
contraction and considerable strain on the
engine housing will result. If you can repeat the
treatment a few times, cracking and serious
damage will result.

(3) You can ruin the effectiveness of an
alr coollng system by plugging dirt and waste
into intake, or exhaust valves. If a belt-run fan.
js used in. the system, make a jagged cut at
least half way through the belt; it will slip and
finally part under strain and the motor will
overheat.

(d) Gasoline and Oil Fuel
Tanks and fueling engines usually are ac-

cessible and easy to open. They afford a very vul-
. merable target for simple sabotage activities.

(1) Put several pinches of sawdust or hard
grain, such as rice or wheat, into the fuel tank
of a gasoline engine.” The particles will choke
& feed line so that the engine will stop. Some
time will be required to discover the source of

‘the trouble. Although they will be hard to get,

crumbs of natural rubber, such as you might
find in old rubber bands and pencil erasers, are
also effective.

(2) If you can accumulate sugar, put It in

13
the fue} tank of @ gasoline engine. As \t burns
together with the gasoline, it will turn into a
sticky mess which will completely mire the
engine and necessitate extensive cleaning and
repair. Honey and molasses are as good as sugar.
Try to use about 75-100 grams for each 10 gal-
lons of gasoline.

(3) Other impurities which you can intro-
duce Into gasoline will cause rapid engine wear
and eventual breakdown. Fine particles of pum-
ice, sand, ground glass, and metal dust can easily
be introduced inte a gasoline tank. Be sure
that the particles are very fine, so that they will
be able to pass through the carburetor jet.

(4) Water, urine, wine, or any other simple
liquid you can get in reasonably large quantities
will dilute gasoline fuel to a point where no com-
bustion will occur in the cylinder and the engine

» Wilk not move. One pint to 20 gallons of gasoline
is suMcient. If sait water is used, it will cause
corrosion and permanent motor damage.

(5) In the case of Diesel engines, put low
flashpoint oil into the fucl tank; the engine will
not move. If there already is proper oil in the
tank when the wrong kind is added, the engine
will only limp and sputter along.

(6) Fuel lines to gasoline and oi] engines
frequently pass over the exhaust pipe. When
the machine is at rest, you can stab a small hole
in the fuel line and plug the hole with wax. As
the engine runs and the exhaust tube becomes
hot, the wax will be melted; fuel will drip onto
the exhaust and a blaze will start.

(7) If you have access to a room where
gasoline is stored, remember that gas vapor ac-
cumulating in a closed room will explode after
a time if you leave a candle burning in the room.
A good deal of evaporation, however, must occur
from the gasoline tins into the air of the room.
Tf removal of the tops of the tins does not expose

enough gasoline to the air to ensure copious
evaporation, you can open Nghtly constructed
tins further with a knife, ice pick or sharpened
nail file. Or puncture a tiny hole In the tank
which wlll permit gasoline to leak out on the’ |
floor. This will greatly increase the rate of
evaporation. Before you Nght your candle, be
sure that windows are closed and the roorm Js as °
air-tight as you can make if. If you can see that
windows in a neighboring room are opened wide,
you have a chance of setting a large fire which
will not only destroy the gasoline but anything -
else nearby; when the gasoline explodes, the
doors of the storage room will be blown open,
a draft to the nelghboring windows will be
created which will whip up a fine conflagration.
(e) Electric Motors
Electric motors (including dynamos) are
more restricted than the targets so far discussed.
They cannot be sabotaged easily or without risk of
injury by unskilled persons who may otherwise have
good opportunities for destruction.

(1) Set the rheostat to a high point of
resistance in all types of electric motors. They
will overheat and catch fire. F

(2) Adjust the overload relay to a very high
value beyond the capacity of the motor. Then
overload the motor to a point where it will over-
heat and break down.

(3) Remember that dust, dirt, and moisture
are enemies of electrical equipment. Spill dust
and dirt onto the points where the wires in’
electric motors connect with terminals, and onto
insulating parts. Inefficient transmission of cur-
rent and, in some cases, short circuits will result.
Wet generator motors to produce short circuits.

(4) “Accidentally” bruise the inswation on
wire, looscn nuls on connections, make faulty
Splices and faulty connections in wiring, to
waste electric current and reduce the power of
electric motors,
(5) Damage to commutators can reduce
the power output or cause short circuiting in
direct-current motors: Loosen or remove com-
mutator holding rings. Sprinkle carbon, graph-
Itc, or metal dust on commutators. Put a little
&rease or oil at the contact points of commuta-
lors. Where commutator bars are close together
uridge the gaps between them with metal dust,
or sawtooth Lheir edges with a chisel so that the
terth on adjoining bars meet or nearly meet
and current can pass from one to the other.

(G6) Put a piece of finely grained emery
paper half the size of a postage stamp in a place
where it will wear away rotating brushes. The
emery paper—and the motor—will be destroyed
in the resulting fire.

(7) Sprinkle carbon, graphite or metal dust
on slip-rings so that the current will leak or
short circuits will occur, When a motor is idle,
nick the slip-rings with a chisel.

(8) Cause motor stoppage or inefficiency by
applying dust mixed with grease to the face of
the armature so that it will not make proper
contact,

(2) To overheat electric motors, mix sand
with heavy grease and smear {it between the
stator and rotor, or wedge thin metal pleces be-
tween them. To prevent the efficient generation
of current, put floor sweepings, oll, tar, or paint
between them.

. (10) In motors using three-phase current,
deeply nick one of the lead-in wires with a knife
or file when the machine Js at rest, or replace
one of the three fuses with a blown-out fuse. In
the first case, the motor will stop after running
awhile, and jn the second, it will not start.

(f) Transformers
(1) Transformers of the oll-Alled type can

be put out of commission {f you pour water, salt’

eg

| |W

water, machine-tool coolant, or kerosene into the
oi) tank.

(2) In air-cooled transformers, block the
ventilation by piling debris around the trans-
former. .

(3) In all types of transformers, throw car-.
bon, graphite or metal dust over the outside
bushings and other exposed electrical parts.

(g) Turbines for the most part are heavily built,

stoutly housed, and difficult of access. Their vulner-
abllity to simple sabotage is very low.

(1) After inspecting or repairing a hydro
turbine, fasten the cover insecurely so that it
will blow off and flood the plant with water. A
loose cover on a steam turbine wall cause it to
leak and slow down.

(2) In water turbines, insert a large plece
of scrap iron in the head of the penstock, just:
beyond the screening, so that water will carry
the damaging material down to the plant equip-
ment. .

(3) When the steam line to a turbine fs
opened for repair, put pieces of scrap fron jnto
it, to be blasted into the turbine machinery when
steam jis up again.

(4) Create a leak in the line feeding oil to
the turbine, so that oi) will fall on the hot steam
pipe and cause a fire.

{h) Boilers

(1) Reduce the efficiency of steam bolilers
any way you can. Put too much water in them to.
make them slow-starting, or keep-the fire under
them low to keep them Inefficient. Let thern dry
and turn the fire up; they will crack and be
ruined. An especially good trick is to keep put-
ting limestone or water containing lime in the
boiler; it will deposit lime on the bottom and
sides. This deposlt will provide very good {nsula-
tioh against heat; after enough of It has col-
lected, the boiler will be completely worthless.
(3) Production: Metals

(4)

(a) Tron and Steel
(1) Keep blast furnaces in a condition
where they must be frequently shut down for

repalr. In making fire-proof bricks for the inner -

Mning of blast furnaces, put in an extra propor-
tlon of tar so that they will wear out quickly
and necessitate constant re-lining.

(2) Make cores for casting so that they are
filled with air bubbles and an imperfect cast
results.

(3) Seethat the core in a mold is not
properly supported, so that the core gives way
or the casting is spoiled because of the \ncorrect
position of the core. :

(4) In tempering steel or fron, apply too
much heat, so that the resulting bars and ingots
are of poor quality.

(b) Other Metals

No suggestions available.

Production: Mining and Mineral Extraction

(a) Coal :

(1) A slight blow against your Davy oll
lamp will extinguish it, and to Nght it again
you will have to find a place where there ts no
fire damp. Take a long time looking for the
place.

‘(2) Blacksmiths who make pneumatic
picks should not harden them properly, so that
they will quickly grow dull.

(3) You can easily put your pneumatic pick
out of order. Pour a small amount of water
through the oil lever and your pick will stop
working. Coal dust and improper lubrication
will also put it out of order. ‘

(4) Weaken the chain that pulls the bucket
conveyers carrying coal. A deep dent in the
chain made with biows of a pick or shovel will

cause It to part under normal strain, Once a.

yo ee

ne eae

:
chain breaks, normally or otherwise, take your
time about reporting the damage; be slow about
taking the chain up for repairs and bringing it
back down after repairs.

(5) Derali mine cars by putting obstruc-
’ tions on the rails and in switch points. If pos-
sible, pick a gallery where coal cars have to pass
each other, so that traffic will be snarled up.
(8) Send up quantities of rock and other
useless material with the coal. —
(5) Production: Agriculture
(a) Machinery
(1) See par. 5b. (2) (c), (a), (e).

(b} Crops and livestock probably will be de-
stroyed only in areas where there are large food
surpluses or where the enemy (regime) is known to
be requisitioning food.

(1) Feed crops to livestock, Let crops har-
vest too early or too late. Spoil stores of grain,
fruit and vegetables by soaking them in water
so that they will rot. Spoil fruit and vegetables
by leaving them in the sun,

Transportation; Railways
(a) Passengers :

(1) Make train travel as Inconvenient as
possible for enemy personnel. Make mistakes {n
issuing train tickets, leaving portions of the
Journey uncovered by the ticket book; issue two
tickets for the same seat in the train, so that
an interesting argument will result; near train
time, instead of issuing printed tickets write
them out slowly by hand, prolonging the process
until the train is nearly ready to leave or has
left the station. On station bulletin boards an-
nouncing train arrivals and departures, see that
false and misleading information Is given about
tralns bound for enemy destinations.

“(2) In trains bound for enemy destinations,
attendants showld make life as uncomfortable

(6

19
As possible for passengers. Sec thal the food is
especially bad, take up Uckels after midnight,
call all station stops very loudly during the
night, handle baggnge as noisily as possible dur-
Ing the night, and so on.

(3) See that the luggage of enemy pertsun-
nel is mislaid or unloaded at the wrong stations.
Switch address Jabels on encmy baggage.

(4) Engineers should see that trains run
slow or make unscheduled stops for plausible
reasons.

(b) Switches, Signals and Routing

(1) Exchange wires in switchboards con-
taining signals and switches, so that they con-
nect to the wrong terminals.

(2) Loosen push-rods so that signal arms
do not work; break signal lights; exchange the
colored lenses on red and grecn lights.

(3) Spread and spike switch points in the
track so that they will not move, or place rocks
or close-packed dirt between the switch points.

(4) Sprinkle rock salt ov ordinary salt pro- :

fusely over the clectrical connections of switch
points and on the ground nearby. When it rains,
the switch will be short-circuited,

(5) See that cars are put on the wrong |

trains. Remove the labels {rom cars necding re-
pait and put them on cars in good order. Leave
couplings between cars as loose as possible.

(c) Road-beds and Open Track

(1) On a curve, take the bolts out of the
tie-plates connecting to sections of Lhe outside
rail, and scoop away the gravel, cinders, or dirt
for a few feet on each side of the connecting
joint.

(2) If by disconnecting the tie-plate at a
joint and loosening sleeper nails on each side
of the joint, it becomes possible to move a sec-

20

tion of rail, spread two sections of Tan and
drive a spike vertically between them.
(d) Oi) and Lubrication

(1) See 5 b, (2) (bv).

(2) Squeeze lubricating plpes with pincers

or dent them with hammers, so that the flow of
oil is obstructed.

(e) Cooling Systems
(1) See 5 b (2) (c).
({f) Gasoline and Oj) Fuel
(1) See 5 b (2) ‘(d).
(g) Electric Motors
(1) See 5 b (2) (e) and (f).
(h) Bollers
(1) See 5 b (2) (h).
(2) After inspection put heavy oil or tar in

the engines’ boilers, ov put half a kilogram of
soft soap into the water in the tender.

{{) Brakes and Miscclianecous

(1) Engines should run at high speeds and
use brakes excessively at curves and on down-
hill grades.

(2) Punch holes in air-brake valves or water
supply pipes.

{3) In the last car of a passenger train or
or a front car of a [reight, remove the wadding
from a journal box and replace It with olly rags.

(7) Transportation: Automotive

(a) Roads. Damage to roads [((3) below] is

slow, and therefore impractical as a D-day or near
D-day activity.

' (1) Change sign posts at intersections and
forks; the enemy will go the wrong way and
it may be miles before he discovers his mista kes.
In areas where traffic is composed primarily of
enemy autos, trucks, and motor convoys of

21
various kinds, remove danger aslgnals from
curves and intersections,

(2) When the enemy asks for dlrectlons,
give him wrong information. Especially when
enemy convoys are in the neighborhood, truck
drivers can spread rumors and give false infor-
mation about bridges being out, ferrles closed,
and detours lying ahead.

(3) If you can start damage to a heavily
traveled road, passing traffic and the elernents
will do the rest. ‘Construction gangs can see
that too much sand or water is put in concrete
or that the road foundation has soft spots. Any-
one can scoop ruts in asphalt and macadam
roads which turn soft in hot weather; passing
trucks will accentuate the ruts to a point where
substantial repair will be needed. Dirt roads
also can be scooped out, If you are a road laborer,
{tb will be only a few minutes work to divert a
sma)} stream from a sluice so that It runs over
and eats away the road.

(4) Distribute broken glass, nails, and
sharp rocks on roads to puncture tires.
(b) Passengers

(1) Bus-driver can go past the stop where
the enemy wants to get off. Taxi drivers can
waste the enemy's time and make extra money
by driving the longest possible route to his des-
(Ination,
(c) Oi} and Lubrication

(1) See 5 b. (2) (b).

» (2) Disconnect the oil pump; this will burn

out the main bearings in less than 50 miles of
normal driving.

(a) Radintor

(1) See 5b. (2) (c).
(e) Fuel

(1) See 6b. (2) (d).

22

~s

Mes

(f) Battery and Ignition

(1) Jam bits of wood into the ignition lock;
loosen or exchange connections behind the
switchboard; put dirt {n spark plugs; damage
distributor polnts.

(2) Turn on the lights in parked cars 50
that the battery will run down,

(3) Mechanics can ruin batterics In a num-
ber of undetectable ways: Take the valve cap
off a cell, and drive a screw driver slantwise {nto
the exposed water vent, shattering the plates
of the cell; no damage will show when you put
the cap back on. Iron or copper fillings put into *
the cells i.e., dropped into the acid, will greatly
shorten Its life. Copper coins or a few pleces of
iron will accomplish the same and more slowly.
One hundred to 150 cubic centimeters of vinegar
in each cell greatly reduces the life of the bat-
tery, but the odor of the vinegar may reveal
what has happened.

(g) Gears :

(1) Remove the lubricant from or put too
Nght a lubricant in the transmission and other
gears.

(2) In trucks, tractors, and other machines
with heavy gears, Aix the gear case insccurely,
putting bolts in only half the bolt holes. The
gears will be badly jolted in use and will soon
need repairs.

(h) Tires :

(1) Slash or puncture tires of unguarded
vehicles. Put a nail inside a match box or other
small box, and set it vertically in front of the
back tire of a stationary car; when the car starts
off, the nail will go neatly through the tire.

(2) It is easy to damage a tire in a tire
répair shop: In fixing flats. spill glass, benzine,

- caustic soda, or other material inside the casing

which will puncture or corrode the tube. If you
put a gummy substance inside the tube, the next
flat will stick the tube to the casing and make

23
e

(8)

it unusable, Or, when you fix a flat tire, you
can simply Icave between the tube and the cas-
ing the object which caused the flat in the first
place,

(3) In assembling a tire after repair, pump
the tube up as fast as you can. Instead of filling
out smoothly, it may crease, jn which case it
will wear out quickly. Or, as you put a tire to-
gether, sce if you can pinch the tube between
the rim of the tire and the rim of the wheel, so
that a blow-out will result.

(4) In putting alr into tires, see that they
are kept belownormal pressure, so that more than
an ordinary amount of wear will result. In flll-
ing tires on double wheels, inflate the inner tire
to o much higher pressure than the outer one;
both will wear out more quickly this way. Badly
aligned wheels also wear tires out quickly; you
can leave wheels out of alignment when they
come In for adjustmerit, or you can spring them
out of true with a strong kick, or by driving the
car slowly and diagonally into a curb, _

(5) If you have access to stocks of tires,
you can rot them by spilling oil, gasoline, caustic
acid, or benzine on them. Synthetic rubber,
however, {is less susceptible to these chemicals.

Transportation: Water
(a) Navigation

(1) Barge and river boat personne] should
spread false rumors about the navigabillty and
conditions of the waterways they travel. Tell
other barge and boat captains to follow channels
that will take extra time, or cause them to make
canal detours.

(2) Barge and river boat captains should
navigate with exceeding caution near locks and
bridges, to waste thelr timo and to waste the
time of other craft which may have to walt on
them. If you don’t pump the bilges of ships and
barges’ often enough, they will be slower and

nA

at

A

(9)

harder to navigate. Barges “accidentally” run
aground are an efficient time waster too.

(3) Attendants on swing, draw, or basculc
bridges can delay traMc over the bridge or in
the waterway underneath by being slow. Boat
captains can leave unattended draw bridges
open in order to hold up road traffic.

(4) Add or.subtract compensating magnets
to the compass on cargo ships. Demagnetize the
compass or maladjust it by concealing a large
bar of steel or iron near to St,

(b) Cargo

(1) While loading or unloading, handle
cargo carelessly in order to cause damage. Ar-
range the cargo so that the weakest and lightest
crates and boxes will be at the bottom of the
hold, while the heaviest ones are on top of them.
Put hatch covers and tarpaulins on sloppily, so
that rain and deck wash will injure the cargo.
Tie float valves open so that storage tanks will
overflow on perishable goods.

Communications
(a) Telephone

(4) At office, hotel and exchange switch-
boards delay putting enemy calls through, give
them wrong numbers, cut them off “accident-
ally,” or forget to disconnect them so that the
line cannot be used again.

(2) Hamper oMclal and especially military
business by making at least one telephone calla
day to an enemy headquarters; when you get
them, tell them you have the wrong number.
Calt military or police offices and make anony-
mous false reports of Ares, air raids, bombs.

* (3) In offices and buildings used by the

- enemy, unscrew the earphone of telephone re-

celvers and remove the dlaphragm. Electricians
and telephone repalr men can make poor con-
nections and damage insulation so that cross-

25
talk and other kinds of electrical interference
will make conversations hard or impossible to
understand.

(4) Put the batterles under automatic
switchboards out of commission by dropping
nails, metal Alings, or coins into the cells. If you
can treat half the batteries in this way, the
switchboard will stop working. A whole tele-
phone system can be disrupted if you can put 10
percent of the cells in half the batterles of the
central battery room out of order.

(b) Telegraph

(1) Delay the transmission and delivery of
telegrams to enemy destinations.

(2) Garble telegrams to enemy destinations
so that another telegram will have to be sentor a
long distance call will have to be made. Some-
times it wlll be possible to do this by changing
a single letter In a word —- for example, chang-
ing “minimum” to "“miximum,” so that the
person receiving the telegram wili not know
whether “minimum” or ‘‘maximum” {s meant.
(c) Transportation Lines

(1) Cut telephone and felegraph transmis-
sion lines, Damage insulation on power lines to
cause interference.

(d) Mall”

(1) Post offica employees can see to It that
enemy mati {s always delayed by one day or
more, that it is put in wrong sacks, and so on,
(e) Motion Pictures

(1) Projector operatora can ruin newsreels
and other enemy propaganda films by bad focus-

ing, speeding up or slowing down the film and.

by causing frequent breakage in the film.

(2) Audiences can ruin enemy propaganda
films by applauding to drown the words of the
speaker, by coughing loudly, and by talking.

(3) Anyone can break up 4 showing of an

enemy propaganda film by putting two or three

, dozen large moths in a paper bag. Take the bag

(10)

to the movies with you, put It on the floor in an
empty section of the theater as you go in and
leave it open. The moths will fly out and climb
into the projector beam, so that the film will be
obscured by fluttering shadows.

(ft) Radio

(1) Station engineers will find it quite easy
to overmodulate transmissions of talks by per-
sons giving enemy propaganda or instructions,
so that they will sound as if they were talking
‘through a heavy cotton blanket with a mouth
full of marbles.

(2) In your own apartment building, you
can interfere with radio reception at times when
the enemy wants everybody to Usten, Take an
electric light plug off the end of an etectric light
cord; take some wire out of the cord and tle it
across two terminals of a two-prong plug or
three terminals of a four-prong plug. Then take
it around and put It Into as many wall and floor
outlets as you can find. Each time you insert the
plug into a new circuit, you will blow out a fuse
and silence all radios running on power from
that clrcwlt until a new fuse js put in.

(3) Damaging insulation on any electrical
equipment tends to create radio interference in
the immediate neighborhood, particwWarly on
large generators, neon signs, fluorescent Nght-
ing, X-raymachines, and power lines. If workmen
can damage insulation on a high tersion line

_Tear an enemy airfield, they will make ground-

to-plane radio communications diffewt and per-
haps impossible Gieing long periods of ‘the day.

Electric Power

(a) Turbines, Electric Motors, Transformers
(2) See 6 b. (2) (e), (f), and (g).

(by Transmission Lines
(1) Lineamen can loosen and dirty insula-
tors to cause power leakage. It will be quite easy,
too, for them to tie a piece of very heavy string
several times back ond forth between two paral-
lel transmission lines, winding \t several turns
fround the wire each time. Beforehand, the
string should be heavily saturated with salt and
then dried. When it rains, the string becomes a
conductor, and a short-circuit will result.

(11) General Interference with Organizations and
Production

(a) Organizations and Conferences

(1) Insist on doing everything through
“channels.” Never permit short-cuts to be taken
in order to expedite decisions.

(2) Make “speeches.” Talk as frequently as
possible and at great length. Tilustrate your.
“points” by long anecdotes and accounts of per-
sonal experiences. Never hesitate to make a few
appropriate “patriotic'' comments.

(3) When possible, refer all matters to -

commiltees, for “further study and considera-
thon," Attempt to make the committees as large
as possible — never less than five.

(4) Bring up irrelevant issues as frequently
as possible.

(5) Haggle over precise wordings of com-
munications, minutes, resolutions.

(G) Refer back to matters decided upon at
the last meeting and attempl to re-open the
question of the advisability of that decision.

(7) Advocate “caution.” Be “reasonable”
and urge your fellow-conferees to be “reason-
able’ and avoid haste which might result in
embarrassments or difficulties later on.

(8) Be worried about the propriety of any
decision —ralse the question of whether such
action as is contemplated lies within the juris-
diction of the group ot whether it might confilct
with the policy of some higher echelon.

28

LJ
’

(b) Managers and Supervisors

(2) Demand written orders.

(2) "Misunderstand” orders, Ask endless
questions or engage in long correspondence
about such orders. Quibble over them when you
can,

(3) Do everything possible to delay -the
delivery of orders. Even though parts of an order
may be ready beforehand, don’t deliver it until
it is completely ready,

(4) Don't order new working materials
until your current stocks have been virtually ex-
hausted, so that the slightest delay in filling
your order will mean a shutdown.

(9) Order high-quality materials which are
hard to get. If you don’t get them argue about
it. Warn that inferior materials will mean {n-
ferior work.

(6) In making work assignments, always

- sign out the unimportant jobs first. See that

the important jobs are assigned to inefficient
workers of poor machines,

(7) Insist on perfect work in relatively un-
important products; send back for refinishing
those which have the least flaw. Approve oLher
defective parts whose flaws are not visible to
the naked eye.

(8) Make mistakes in routing so that parts
and materials will be sent to the wrong place in
the plant.

(9) When training new workers, give in-
complete or misteading instructions.

(10) To lower morale and with it, produc-
tion, be pleasant to inefficient workers; give
tham undeserved promotions. Discriminate
against efficient workers; complain unjustly
about their work.

(11) Hold conferences when there Is more.
critical work to be done.

29
(12) Multiply paper work in plausible ways.
Start duplicate files.

(13) Multiply the procedures and clearances
\nvolved in issuing instructlons, pay checks, and
so on. See that three people have to approve
everything where one would do...

(14) Apply all regulations to the last letter,

(ce) Office Workers

(1) Make mistakes in quantities of material
when you are copying orders. Confuse similar
names. Use wrong addresses.

(2) Prolong correspondence with govern-
ment bureaus, ;

(3) Misfile essential documents,

(4) In making carbon copies, make one too.

few, so that an extra copying job will’ have to
be done.

(5) Tell important callers the boss js busy

or talking on another telephone.
(G) Hold up mail until the next colfection.
(7) Spread disturbing rumors that sound
like inside dope.
(d) Employees

(1) Work slowly. Think out ways to in-
crease the number of movements necessary on
your job: use a light hammer instead of a heavy
oné, try to make @ small wrench do when a big
one is necessary, use Jittle force where Ganisiter-
able force {s needed, and so on.

(2) Contrive as many interruptions to your
work as you can: when changing the material
on which you are working, as you would on a
lathe:or punch, take needless time to do it. If
you are cutting, shaping or doing other meas-
ured work, measure dimensions -twice as often
as you need to. When you go to the lavatory,
spend a longer time there than is necessary.
Forget tools so that you will have to go back
after them.

30

ni.

(3) Even Lf you understand the language,
pretend not to understand instructions in a
foreign tongue.

(4) Pretend thet Instructions are hard to

‘ understand, and ask to have them repeated more
than once. Or pretend that you are particularly
anxious to do your work, and pester the forernan
with unnecessary quéstions.

(5) Do your.work poorly and blame it on
bad tools, machinery, or equipment. Complain
that these things are preventing you from doing
your job right.

(8) Never pass on your skill and exper CREP
to a new or less skillful worker.

(7) Snarl up administration in every pos-
sible way. Fill out forms illegibly so that they
will have to be done over; make mistakes or omit
requested information in forms,

(8) If possible, join or help organize a group
for presenting employee problems to the man-
agement. See that the procedures adopted are
as {jnconvenient as possible for the management,
Involving the presence of a large number of
employees at each presentation, entailing more
than one meeting for each grievance, bringing
up problems which are largely imaginary, amd
80 on.

(8) Misroute materials.

(10) Mix good parts with unusable scrap and
rejected parts.

y , (12) General Devices for Lowering Morale and Creat-
ing Confusion

(a) Give lengthy and incomprehensible expla-~

natlons when questioned.

be

(b). Report imaginary spies or danger to the/
stapo_or\police.

(c) Act stupid.

{d) Be as irritable and quarrelsome as possible

without getting yourself into trouble,

31
(e) Misunderstand all sorts of regulations con-
cerning such matters as rationing, transportation,
trafic regulations,

(f) Complain against ersatz materials.

(g) In public treat axis nationals or quislings
coldly,

(h) Stop all conversation when axds natlonals
or quislings enter a cafe.

_U) Cry and sob hysterically at every occasion,
especially when confronted by government clerks.

(J) Boycott all movies, entertainments, con-
certs, newspapers which are in any way connected
with the quisilng authorities,

(k) Do not cooperate in salvage schemes.

an

~—aAt
